You will be creating a product store front web application throughout the semester and this first lab starts you off with defining the user interface of the site. This is where you define site content and flow as well as express your creativity in web site design.

I highly recommend spending time researching example store front designs online and borrowing structure, content, layout, functionality from those sites. Take https://www.bestmadeco.com/, for example. Open up the JavaScript console in the browser and explore the HTML and CSS. Use this to get ideas about how you want to structure your web site. This is just one example. There are many more out there. See this, for example: https://www.shopify.com/blog/11863377-30-beautiful-and-creative-ecommerce-website-designs

Don't worry about completing this all in one evening. You will have the entire week.

Also don't worry too much about getting it absolutely perfect in one week. I'm looking for content first and foremost. Don't chase any bunnies down rabbit holes. For example, if you are spending too much time playing around with layout design (i.e., CSS), then consider simplifying and moving on. You'll have plenty of time throughout the semester to improve it.

This lab is not intended to intimidate you. Keep it simple and have fun with it.

Here's what you should do:
Create github.com account (if you don't already have one)
Create a new repository via github.com
Clone your new repository to your local machine
Create a new directory for week 1 work
Design and begin implementing an  online storefront site
Define the site flow
Keep it simple
Create XHTML content for multiple pages
 
"Home" page 
"Product List" page 
"Product Detail" page 
"View Shopping Cart" page
Create CSS for overall layout of site
Keep it simple
Use "mock" data on your pages
Present a list of products on the "Product List" page
Display detailed information on the "Product Detail" page
Include controls (i.e., buttons etc) to do things on the page
You won't be able to do much when the user clicks on these buttons other than input validation
Stretch goal: Utilize JavaScript or input field validation on forms
Use vanilla JavaScript or jQuery 
Do NOT use one of the modern JavaScript frameworks (e.g., Angular) 
If you have not had JavaScript use HTML 5 validation
Commit and push your code to github.com
Review the rubric to understand what is expected of you and how you will be graded.
When you submit this lab, provide the github.com URL to your project. The URL should contain the branch that contains these changes. I will show you how to create branches and how to obtain this URL.